!SLIDE
!TITLE Cheap Advice

h1. Cheap Advice

* Kurt Stephens
* Enova Financial -- "http://enovafinancial.com":http://enovafinancial.com
* RubyConf 2011
* Slides -- "http://kurtstephens.com/pub/cheap_advice.slides/index.html":http://kurtstephens.com/pub/cheap_advice.slides/index.html
* Code -- "http://github.com/kstephens/cheap_advice":http://github.com/kstephens/cheap_advice

!SLIDE
!TITLE Clean Code

h1. Clean Code

@@@ ruby

class MyClass
  def foo; 42; end
end
class MyOtherClass
  def bar; 43; end
end
a = MyClass.new
b = MyOtherClass.new
a.foo
b.bar

@@@

!SLIDE
!TITLE Add Logging

h1. Add Logging

@@@ ruby

class MyClass
  def foo
    $stderr.puts "#{self}#foo => 42"
    42
  end
end
class MyOtherClass
  def bar
    $stderr.puts "#{self}#bar => 43"
    43
  end
end
a = MyClass.new
b = MyOtherClass.new
a.foo
b.bar

@@@

!SLIDE
!TITLE Add Security

h1. Add Security

@@@ ruby

class MyClass
  def foo
    raise "SecurityError" unless $roles.include?("MyClass#foo")
    $stderr.puts "#{self}#foo => 42"
    42
  end
end
class MyOtherClass
  def bar
    raise "SecurityError" unless $roles.include?("MyClass#bar")
    $stderr.puts "#{self}#bar => 43"
    43
  end
end
a = MyClass.new
b = MyOtherClass.new
$roles = [ "MyClass#foo" ]
a.foo
b.bar

@@@

!SLIDE
!TITLE YUCK!

h1. ...YUCK!

@@@ ruby

class MyClass
  def foo
    # YUCK!: raise "SecurityError" unless $roles.include?("MyClass#foo")
    # YUCK!: $stderr.puts "#{self}#foo => 42"
    42
  end
end
class MyOtherClass
  def bar
    # YUCK!: raise "SecurityError" unless $roles.include?("MyClass#bar")
    # YUCK!: $stderr.puts "#{self}#bar => 43"
    43
  end
end
a = MyClass.new
b = MyOtherClass.new
$roles = [ "MyClass#foo" ] # ???
a.foo
b.bar

@@@


!SLIDE
!TITLE Dumb and Clean, Smart and Dirty

h1. Dumb and Clean, Smart and Dirty

* Real World is Smart Code.
* Dumb Code is Clean, Smart Code is Dirty. 
* Get Dirt Out Of Code -- (problem-domain vs. solution-domain) 
* Sweep It Somewhere Else -- (modularize the smart dirt)
* Don't be Dirty All the Time -- (dynamic, stateful dirt: logging, debugging, security, etc.)

!SLIDE
!TITLE Separation of Concerns

h1. Separation of Concerns

* Logging
* Security

... are not problem-domain issues.

!SLIDE
!TITLE Advice

h1. Advice

* Commonplace in the Lisp world, (esp. Emacs).
* Advice is function that wraps another function: "before", "after" or "around".
* Advice can be added or removed at run-time.

!SLIDE
!TITLE Advice != Aspects

h1. Advice != Aspects

* Aspects are woven into code based on complex "codepoint" criteria at build-time (or load-time).
* Advice is applied to a more well-known constructs: applicable objects: functions, methods, etc.
* Advice are objects.
* Advice can be added and removed at run-time.

!SLIDE
!TITLE Cheap Advice

h1. Cheap Advice

* ... adds dynamic Advice to Ruby methods.
* ... is applied to methods.
* ... are stateful objects.
* ... can be added and removed at run-time.
* ... are configurable.

!SLIDE
!TITLE Logging Advice

h1. Logging Advice

@@@ ruby

# Advice 
trace_advice = CheapAdvice.new(:around) do | ar, body |
  ar.advice[:log] << 
    "#{Time.now.iso8601(6)} " <<
    "#{ar.rcvr.class} #{ar.meth} #{ar.rcvr.object_id}\n"
  body.call
  ar.advice[:log] << 
    "#{Time.now.iso8601(6)} " <<
    "#{ar.rcvr.class} #{ar.meth} #{ar.rcvr.object_id} " <<
    "=> #{ar.result.inspect}\n"    
end
# State attached to trace_advice.
trace_advice[:log] = File.open("trace.log", "a+")

@@@

!SLIDE
!TITLE Applying Advice

h1. Applying Advice

@@@ ruby

...
# Activate trace_advice:
trace_advice.advise!(MyClass, :foo)
trace_advice.advise!(MyOtherClass, :bar)
a.foo
b.bar

# Disable trace_advice:
trace_advice.disable!
a.foo
b.bar
@@@

!SLIDE
!TITLE Configuration

h1. Configuration

@@@ yaml

:advice:
  ~:
    :enabled: false
    :options:
      :trace:
        :logger:
          :name: :default

  'MyClass':
    :advice:  trace

  'MyClass#foo':
    :enabled: false

  'MyClass#bar':
    :enabled: false

@@@

!SLIDE
!TITLE Security Advice

h1. Security Advice

You get the idea.

!SLIDE
!TITLE Example

h1. See example/ex01.rb

!SLIDE
!TITLE CheapAdvice

h1. Questions?

h1. Code!

http://github.com/kstephens/cheap_advice

